M68 release notes (#1085)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/pulumi-release-notes-68/index.md

---

> title: "Feb. 11 Releases: Update Plans public preview, Helm Release for Kubernetes GA and new Pulumi Service sign-in experience"

Reviewer: Perhaps this is consistent with precedent - but feels a little odd to be explicit about the date but two weeks before the blog post. I can imagine just leaving off the date, saying just February, or citing the milestone instead of the date.

# of the content of the post, which is useful for targeting search results or social-media
# previews. This field is required or the build will fail the linter test.
meta_desc: The latest Pulumi updates also include Pulumi Update Plans, various improvements to Helm Release for Kubernetes GA, and an improved Pulumi Service sign-in experience.

# The meta_image appears in social-media previews and on the blog home page.
# A placeholder image representing the recommended format, dimensions and aspect
# ratio has been provided for you.
meta_image: meta.png

# At least one author is required. The values in this list correspond with the `id`
# properties of the team member files at /data/team/team. Create a file for yourself
# if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - meagan-cojocar

# At least one tag is required. Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
    - features
---

The team has been busy releasing new features and improvements in the last 3 weeks. Read on to learn about what's new in this release!

- Cloud Providers and Packages
  - [Helm Release for Kubernetes GA](#helm-release-for-kubernetes-ga)

>   - [Default org considered when running any command with a stack name](#default-org-considered-when-running-any-command-with-a-stack-name)

Reviewer: Can move this to CLI section.

- Pulumi CLI and core technologies
  - [Public preview of Update Plans](#public-preview-of-update-plans)
  - [Disable default provider](#disable-default-provider)
  - [`pulumi up --target` wildcard URN support](#pulumi-up---target-wildcard-urn-support)
- Pulumi Service
  - [Sign-up and sign-in experience revamp](#sign-up-and-sign-up-experience-revamp)
  - [Show resource URN on resource detail page](#show-resource-urn-on-resource-detail-page)

<!--more-->

## Cloud Providers and Packages

### Helm Release for Kubernetes GA

> Back in September 2021 we announced public preview for the Helm Release resource in Pulumi’s Kubernetes provider. Over the last few months, we have had a very encouraging uptake in usage and several meaningful discussions with users in the community that have helped shape improvements to this resource. Thanks to this collaboration, we have been able to make the Helm Release resource GA (generally available) in v3.15.0 of the Pulumi Kubernetes Provider and SDK, in all Pulumi supported languages. We are excited to offer yet another tool to Pulumi users to effectively manage their Kubernetes footprint.

Reviewer: Perhaps link Release to the api docs?

Learn more in our [Helm release blog post]({{< relref "/blog/helm-release-resource-for-kubernetes-generally-available" >}}) and these GitHub issues:
- [Honor namespace specification for all resources installed by Helm Release](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-kubernetes/pull/1747)
- [Make values optional](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-kubernetes/pull/1761)
- [Make RepositoryOpts optional](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-kubernetes/pull/1806)
- [Support local charts](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-kubernetes/pull/1809)

### Consider default org when running commands that accept stack names
Now that we have added the ability to take [advantage of a default org](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/pull/8352), we have added functionality to take into account where there are abilities to pass a stack name as part of a command, such as `pulumi up -s <stackname>` or as part of a `stack select` command. [Learn more in the GitHub issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/8409).

## Pulumi CLI and core technologies

### Public preview of Update Plans

> Pulumi’s previews are an important part of any workflow where you want to see the changes that will be made to your infrastructure before actually making the changes (with `pulumi up`). However, today there is no guarantee that the `pulumi up` operation will do only what was previewed; if the program, or your infrastructure, changes between the preview and the update, the update might make additional changes to bring your infrastructure back in line with what’s defined in your program. We’ve heard from many of you that you need a strong guarantee about exactly which changes an update will make to your infrastructure, especially in critical and production environments.

Reviewer: I might tone down the “there was no guarantee”. Might phrase as “previously , there were cases where…” or similar.

### Disable default provider

While default providers are enabled by default, you can now [disable default providers]({{< relref
"/docs/intro/concepts/config#special-configuration-options" >}}) on a per stack basis. Disabling default
providers is a good idea if you want to ensure that your programs must be explicit about which provider they
will use. For example, to disable the `aws` provider, you can run:

```sh
$ pulumi config set --path 'pulumi:disable-default-providers[0]' aws
```

If you wanted to also disable the `kubernetes` default provider, as well as the `aws` default provider, you could run:

```sh
$ pulumi config set --path 'pulumi:disable-default-providers[1]' kubernetes
```

This adds a new entry to the list `pulumi:disable-default-providers`. To disable all default providers, use `*` as the package name:

```sh
$ pulumi config set --path 'pulumi:disable-default-providers[0]' '*'
```
Learn more in the [Disable Default Providers GitHub issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/3383).

### `pulumi up --target` wildcard URN support

> Our community had requested that we add wildcard URN support to `pulumi up --target` and as a result we now support wildcards for `pulumi up --target <urn>` and similar commands. Learn more in the [Wildcards support GitHub issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/5870).

Reviewer: Might remove the “our community requested” - that’s true for everything here :-). Might instead note that users of the —target flag had requested the ability to use wildcards instead of manually specifying each targeted resource.

## Pulumi Service & Pulumi.com

### Sign-up and sign-in experience revamp

> We spent time this milestone revamping our sign-in and sign-up process in the Pulumi Service. Our intentions were to make it easier to differentiate and toggle between the sign-in and sign-up experiences. As part of this work we also refreshed the design to align with our public website. Take a look! 

Reviewer: Might not focus on time spent - just note that we delivered improved UX on these important pages.

---
title: "Feb. 11 Releases: Update Plans public preview, Helm Release for Kubernetes GA and new Pulumi Service sign-in experience"

# The date represents the post's publish date, and by default corresponds with
# the date this file was generated. Posts with future dates are visible in development,
# but excluded from production builds. Use the time and timezone-offset portions of
# of this value to schedule posts for publishing later.
date: 2022-02-24T15:18:40-08:00

allow_long_title: true

# Draft posts are visible in development, but excluded from production builds.
# Set this property to `false` before submitting your post for review.
draft: true

# Use the meta_desc property to provide a brief summary (one or two sentences)
# of the content of the post, which is useful for targeting search results or social-media
# previews. This field is required or the build will fail the linter test.

> meta_desc: The latest Pulumi updates also include Pulumi Update Plans Update Plans, various improvements to Helm Release for Kubernetes GA, and an improved Pulumi Service sign-in experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
meta_desc: The latest Pulumi updates also include Pulumi Update Plans, various improvements to Helm Release for Kubernetes GA, and an improved Pulumi Service sign-in experience.
```

# The meta_image appears in social-media previews and on the blog home page.
# A placeholder image representing the recommended format, dimensions and aspect
# ratio has been provided for you.
meta_image: meta.png

# At least one author is required. The values in this list correspond with the `id`
# properties of the team member files at /data/team/team. Create a file for yourself
# if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - meagan-cojocar

# At least one tag is required. Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
    - features

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

  - [`pulumi up --target` wildcard URN support]({{< relref "/blog/pulumi-release-notes-68#pulumi-up---target-wildcard-urn-support" >}})
- Pulumi Service
  - [Sign-up and sign-in experience revamp]({{< relref "/blog/pulumi-release-notes-68#sign-up-and-sign-up-experience-revamp" >}})
  - [Show resource URN on resource detail page]({{< relref "/blog/pulumi-release-notes-68#show-resource-urn-on-resource-detail-page" >}})

<!--more-->

## Cloud Providers and Packages

### Helm Release for Kubernetes GA

Back in September 2021 we announced public preview for the Helm Release resource in Pulumi’s Kubernetes provider. Over the last few months, we have had a very encouraging uptake in usage and several meaningful discussions with users in the community that have helped shape improvements to this resource. Thanks to this collaboration, we have been able to make the Helm Release resource GA (generally available) in v3.15.0 of the Pulumi Kubernetes Provider and SDK, in all Pulumi supported languages. We are excited to offer yet another tool to Pulumi users to effectively manage their Kubernetes footprint.

> Learn more [in our blog post]({{< relref "blog/helm-release-resource-for-kubernetes-generally-available/" >}}) and these GitHub issues:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn more in our [Helm release blog post]({{< relref "blog/helm-release-resource-for-kubernetes-generally-available/" >}}) and these GitHub issues:
```

> Learn more in our [Helm release blog post]({{< relref "blog/helm-release-resource-for-kubernetes-generally-available/" >}}) and these GitHub issues:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Learn more in our [Helm release blog post]({{< relref "/blog/helm-release-resource-for-kubernetes-generally-available" >}}) and these GitHub issues:
```

Now that we have added the ability to take [advantage of a default org](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/pull/8352), we have added functionality to take into account where there are abilities to pass a stack name as part of a command, such as `pulumi up -s <stackname>` or as part of a `stack select` command.

[Learn more in this GitHub issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/8409)

## Pulumi CLI and core technologies

### Public preview of Update Plans

Pulumi’s previews are an important part of any workflow where you want to see the changes that will be made to your infrastructure before actually making the changes (with pulumi up). However, today there is no guarantee that the `pulumi up` operation will do only what was previewed; if the program, or your infrastructure, changes between the preview and the update, the update might make additional changes to bring your infrastructure back in line with what’s defined in your program. We’ve heard from many of you that you need a strong guarantee about exactly which changes an update will make to your infrastructure, especially in critical and production environments.

> As a result, we launched a public preview of Update Plans, a new Pulumi feature which guarantees that operations shown in `pulumi preview` will run on `pulumi up`. Update Plans also help catch any unexpected changes that might happen between when you preview a change and when you apply that change. Update Plans work by saving the results of a `pulumi preview` to a plan file, which enables you to restrict subsequent `pulumi up` operations to only the actions saved in the plan file. This helps you ensure that what you saw in the pulumi preview is what will actually happen when you run `pulumi up`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a result, we launched a public preview of Update Plans, a new Pulumi feature which guarantees that operations shown in `pulumi preview` will run on `pulumi up`. Update Plans also help catch any unexpected changes that might happen between when you preview a change and when you apply that change. Update Plans work by saving the results of a `pulumi preview` to a plan file, which enables you to restrict subsequent `pulumi up` operations to only the actions saved in the plan file. This helps you ensure that what you saw in the `pulumi preview` is what will actually happen when you run `pulumi up`.
```

> Learn more [in our blog post on Update Plans]({{< relref "/blog/announcing-public-preview-update-plans/" >}}) and [in this GitHub issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/2318)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn more in our [blog post on Update Plans]({{< relref "/blog/announcing-public-preview-update-plans/" >}}) and in this [Update Plans GitHub issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/2318)
```

### Disable default provider

> While default providers are enabled by default, they [can now be disabled]({{< relref

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While default providers are enabled by default, you can now [disable default providers]({{< relref
```

"/docs/intro/concepts/config#special-configuration-options" >}}) on a per stack basis. Disabling default
providers is a good idea if you want to ensure that your programs must be explicit about which provider they
will use. For example, to disable the `aws` provider, you can run:

```sh
$ pulumi config set --path 'pulumi:disable-default-providers[0]' aws
```

If you wanted to also disable the `kubernetes` default provider, as well as the `aws` default provider, you could run:

```sh
$ pulumi config set --path 'pulumi:disable-default-providers[1]' kubernetes
```

This adds a new entry to the list `pulumi:disable-default-providers`. To disable all default providers, use `*` as the package name:

```sh
$ pulumi config set --path 'pulumi:disable-default-providers[0]' '*'
```

> [Learn more in this GitHub issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/3383)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn more in the [Disable Default Providers GitHub issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/3383)
```

### `pulumi up --target` wildcard URN support

Our community had requested that we add wildcard URN support to `pulumi up --target` and as a result we now support wildcards for `pulumi up --target <urn>` and similar commands. 

> [Learn more in this Github issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/5870)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Learn more in the [Wildcards support Github issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/5870)
```

> Our community had requested that we add wildcard URN support to `pulumi up --target` and as a result we now support wildcards for `pulumi up --target <urn>` and similar commands. 
> 
> Learn more in the [Wildcards support Github issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/5870)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our community had requested that we add wildcard URN support to `pulumi up --target` and as a result we now support wildcards for `pulumi up --target <urn>` and similar commands. Learn more in the [Wildcards support GitHub issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/5870).
```

## Pulumi Service & Pulumi.com

### Sign-up and sign-in experience revamp

We spent time this milestone revamping our sign-in and sign-up process in the Pulumi Service. Our intentions were to make it easier to differentiate and toggle between the sign-in and sign-up experiences. As part of this work we also refreshed the design to align with our public website. Take a look! 

> The new Pulumi Service sign-in page

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The new Pulumi Service sign-in page:

```

![A screenshot of the Pulumi Service sign-in page"](sign-in.png)

> The new Pulumi Service create an account page
> ![A screenshot of the Pulumi Service create an account page"](sign-up.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The new Pulumi Service create an account page:

![A screenshot of the Pulumi Service create an account page"](sign-up.png)
```

### Show resource URN on resource detail page

> We added the resource URN on the resource details page within the Pulumi Service UI. This enables users to easily find the URN for commands like `pulumi up --replace` or `--target`. Users can easily copy the resource URN to their clipboard by clicking on the copy icon.

Reviewer 3: We can omit "UI" here because it's clear (by the screenshot and "resource details page") that we're talking about the console. 

```suggestion
We added the resource URN on the resource details page within the Pulumi Service. This enables users to easily find the URN for commands like `pulumi up --replace` or `--target`. Users can easily copy the resource URN to their clipboard by clicking on the copy icon.
```

> The new resource details page that includes resource URN

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The new resource details page that includes resource URN:
```
